{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red63\green108\blue175;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c30980\c50588\c74118;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c84706;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl853\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I. Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl640\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf3 This paper studied the association of foreign aid to economic growth in Sub-Sahara African (SSA) Countries. Since there are multiple types of foreign aid, I exploit the Official Development Assistance (ODA), known as foreign aid that is used for sustainable economic development. I used Ordinary Least Square (OLS) to regress GDP on Aid, trade, capital formation, and unemployment rate separately for SSA landlocked countries and coastal countries, and in a model that include all SSA countries (landlocked and coastal), while accounting for countries geographic diversity. I found that 1% increase in foreign aid decreases real GDP by 4.8% for SSA countries regardless of their level of development. This paper also highlighted the fact that countries\'92 geographic location, landlocked or costal has a different magnitude of the effect of foreign aid. The results showed that the effect is larger for landlocked compared to coastal countries. Moreover, the effect of aid is 0.019 percentage point higher for landlocked compared to coastal countries.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl853\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 II. Data\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl640\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf4 The data is collected over time (1960-2020) for 48 SSA countries listed on the world bank database. We randomly selected SSA countries based on their landform, climate, and economical background similarities. We assembled the data based on their geographical location, and we formed two groups (landlocked and coastal). We add a variable named landlocked for landlocked countries, and a variable name coastal for coastal countries. After cleaning from missing data, we end up with 32 coastal countries, and 15 landlocked countries in our database with data points between 1990 and 2020. A listing and a map view of the two categorizations can be found in Tables 1 & Map 1. \
This paper uses control variables that have been recognized in some studies as determinants of economic growth. The dependent variable is GDP (REAL US dollars), which is calculated by dividing nominal GDP by GDP deflator. Control variables are Net official development assistance received (% of GDP), Unemployment, (% of total labor force), Gross capital formation (% of GDP), trade (% of GDP). In addition to the independent variables, this paper included a dummy \'93landlocked\'94 variable which is based on the country physical location, and an interaction term between aid and dummy variable landlocked. No single former research of aid on growth has included in their control variables, a geography diversity dummy variable. A study that fails to recognize that growth can be affected by the country geographic location may be biased. Moreover, each of the explanatory variables is also most likely to be correlated with foreign aid as well as economic growth. Omitting them may lead to misidentification. \'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl640\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Figure 5 shows the mean GDP for landlocked and coastal countries. We can clearly observe the fact that landlocked has a lower economy than coastal. Between 1990 and 2020, the average real GDP of coastal countries is about 30% higher than the mean GDP in landlocked countries. Figure 1 shows that the level of capital decreases between 1990 and 2000, but it increases after 2000 with some fluctuation for both coastal and landlocked countries. Figure 1 also highlighted the global financial and COVID19 \'91s crises which impacted landlocked more than coastal in 2000 & 2007. Although coastal was also affected by the financial crises in 2008, the effect of COVID19 crisis is even larger for coastal compared to landlocked countries between 2019 and 2020. The causes of this substantial economic downturn for coastal countries could include but are not limited to the reduction of tourist attendance, the decline in cruise activities, and the strong slowdown in port business as results of COVID19. Figure 2 plots a rising trend of trade with some fluctuation along with economic crisis for both landlocked and coastal. We can also observe the fact that coastal countries had a larger economic downturn as a result of COVID19. \'a0Figure 3 indicates that landlocked countries have the lowest unemployment rate. And figure 4 suggests that foreign aid lagged 1 period has a downward trend overtime with some type of anomaly in 1997 for both landlocked and coastal regions. \
Overall, the economy in landlocked countries is lower on average compared to the one in their neighboring countries. They also have a lower unemployment rate probably because their economy is labor intensive which requires a large amount of labor to produce GDP.\'a0 The data for trade and capital indicates that coastal countries have a larger economic downturn after \'a0COVID19 crisis, certainly due to their dependence on the port economy. Despite the economic crisis, we also learn that trade in landlocked lagged behind the one in coastal countries. However, the data shows a close relationship for landlocked and coastal capital on 1992 and between 2010 & 2015. Foreign aid has a downward trend for both landlocked and coastal regions. Table 2 presents a data summary statistic for landlocked and coastal countries.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl640\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 \
}